package ：the library unit
---

目录

- Code organization 
- Creating unique package names 
- A custom tool library 
- Using imports to change behavior 
- Package caveat 

The reason for all this importing is to provide a mechanism to manage namespaces.   

When you create a source-code file for Java, it’s commonly called a **compilation unit**. Each compilation unit must have a name ending in **.java**, and inside the compilation unit there can be a **public** class that must have the same name as the file (including capitalization, but excluding the .java file name extension).   
There can be **only one public class** in each compilation unit; otherwise, the compiler will complain.   
If there are additional classes in that compilation unit, they are **hidden from the world outside that package** because they’re not public, and they comprise “support” classes for the main public class.
##6.1.1 Code organization 
When compline a **.java** file,，you get an output file for each class in the .java file。  
Each output file has the name of a class in the .java file, but with an extension of **.class**.  

因此，我们可能从少量的.java 文件里有获得很多的.class 文件。  

> If you’ve programmed with a compiled language, you might be used to the compiler spitting out an intermediate form (usually an “**obj**” file) that is then packaged together with others of its kind using a linker (to create an executable file) or a librarian (to create a library). 

但java不是这么做的。A working program is a bunch of **.class files**, which can be packaged and compressed into a Java ARchive (**JAR**) file (using Java’s jar archiver).   
The Java interpreter is responsible for finding, loading, and interpreting these files.

A library is a group of these class files. Each source file usually has a public class and any number of non-public classes, so there’s one public component for each source file. If you want to say that all these components (each in its own separate .java and .class files) belong together, that’s where the package keyword comes in.

If you use a package statement, it must appear as **the first non-comment in the file**. When you say:

    package access;
you’re stating that this compilation unit is part of a library named access.  
惯例：Java package names全小写

It’s worth keeping in mind that what the **package** and **import** keywords allow you to do, as a library designer, is to **divide up the single global namespace so you won’t have clashing names**, no matter how many people get on the Internet and start writing classes in Java.

##6.1.2 Creating unique package names 

##6.1.3 A custom tool library 

在package lzx中->class Print中->用print函数代替System.out.println：

    //Print.java
    package lzx;
    
    public class Print {
    	public static void print(String s) {	//注意是public static
    		System.out.println(s);
    	}    
    	
    }
在PrintTest.java中使用：

    //PrintTest.java
    import lzx.Print;		//普通import
    
    public class PrintTest {
    	public static void main(String[] args) {
    		Print.print("Available from now on!");
    	}
    }

也可以用静态引用：import static
[http://blog.csdn.net/xyz_fly/article/details/8178104](http://blog.csdn.net/xyz_fly/article/details/8178104)

    //PrintTest.java
    import static  lzx.Print.*;		//注意：import static的static
									//	   lzx.Print.* 最后的.*
    
    public class PrintTest {
    	public static void main(String[] args) {
    		print("Available from now on!");	//调用时不用写类名Print
    	}
    }
    
    

##6.1.4 Using imports to change behavior 

##6.1.5 Package caveat 
