## SE5新加的功能 ##

###创建：

	public enum Spiciness {
    		NOT_N, MILD, MEDIUM, HOT, FLAMING
    }
Because the instances of enumerated types are **constants**, they are in **all capital letters by convention**.

###使用：
To use an enum, you create a reference of that type and assign it to an instance:

    public class SimpleEnumUse {
    	public static void main(String[] args) {
    		Spiciness howHot = Spiciness.MEDIUM;
    		System.out.println(howHot);
    	}
    }
output：

    MEDIUM


The compiler automatically adds useful features when you create an enum. For example, it creates a **toString( )** so that you can easily display the name of an enum instance, which is how the print statement above produced its output.

The compiler also creates an **ordinal**( ) method to indicate the declaration order of a particular enum constant, and a static **values**( ) method that produces an array of values of the enum constants in the order that they were declared:

    public class EnumOrder {
    	public static void main(String[] args) {
    		for (Spiciness s : Spiciness.values())
    			System.out.println(s + ", ordinal " + s.ordinal());
    	}
    }
output：
    
    NOT_N, ordinal 0
    MILD, ordinal 1
    MEDIUM, ordinal 2
    HOT, ordinal 3
    FLAMING, ordinal 4

Although **enums** appear to be a new data type, the keyword only produces some compiler behavior while generating a class for the **enum**, so in many ways you can treat an **enum** as if it were any other class. In fact, **enums** are classes and have their own methods.  

----
###An especially nice feature is the way that enums can be used inside switch statements:

    public class Burrito {
    	Spiciness degree;
    
    	public Burrito(Spiciness degree) {
    		this.degree = degree;
    	}
    
    	public void describe() {
    		System.out.print("This burrito is ");
    		switch (degree) {
    		case NOT:
    			System.out.println("not spicy at all.");
    			break;
    		case MILD:
    		case MEDIUM:
    			System.out.println("a little hot.");
    			break;
    		case HOT:
    		case FLAMING:
    		default:
    			System.out.println("maybe too hot.");
    		}
    	}
    
    	public static void main(String[] args) {
    		Burrito plain = new Burrito(Spiciness.NOT), greenChile = new Burrito(Spiciness.MEDIUM),
    				jalapeno = new Burrito(Spiciness.HOT);
    		plain.describe();
    		greenChile.describe();
    		jalapeno.describe();
    	}
    	public enum Spiciness {
    		NOT, MILD, MEDIUM, HOT, FLAMING
    		}
    }

output:

    This burrito is not spicy at all.
    This burrito is a little hot.
    This burrito is maybe too hot.
   
Since a **switch** is intended to select from a limited set of possibilities, it’s an ideal match for an **enum**. Notice how the enum names can produce a much clearer indication of what the program means to do.

之后有一章专门讲枚举类型