    package lzx;
    import static lzx.Print.print;
    
    class Insect {
    	private int i = 9;
    	protected int j;
    
    	Insect() {
    		print("i = " + i + ", j = " + j);
    		j = 39;
    	}
    
    	private static int x1 = printInit("static Insect.x1 initialized");
    
    	static int printInit(String s) {
    		print(s);
    		return 47;
    	}
    }
    
    public class Beetle extends Insect {
    	private int k = printInit("Beetle.k initialized");
    
    	public Beetle() {
    		print("k = " + k);
    		print("j = " + j);
    	}
    
    	private static int x2 = printInit("static Beetle.x2 initialized");
    
    	public static void main(String[] args) {
    		print("Beetle constructor");
    		Beetle b = new Beetle();
    	}
    }

结果：
    
    static Insect.x1 initialized
    static Beetle.x2 initialized
    Beetle constructor
    i = 9, j = 0
    Beetle.k initialized
    k = 47
    j = 39

The first thing that happens when you run Java on Beetle is that you try to access
Beetle.main( ) (a static method), so the loader goes out and finds the compiled code for
the Beetle class (this happens to be in a file called Beetle.class). In the process of loading
it, the loader notices that it has a base class, which it
then loads. This will happen whether or not you’re going to make an object of that base class.


如果把main中的这一行注释掉：

    //Beetle b = new Beetle();

结果：
    
    static Insect.x1 initialized
    static Beetle.x2 initialized
    Beetle constructor
  
If the base class has a base class, that second base class would then be loaded, and so on.
Next, the **static** initialization in the root base class (in this case, Insect) is performed, and
then the next derived class, and so on. This is important because the derived-class static
initialization might depend on the base class member being initialized properly.


At this point, the necessary classes have all been loaded so the object can be created. First, all
the primitives in this object are set to their default values and the object references are set to
null—this happens in one fell swoop by setting the memory in the object to binary zero. Then
the base-class constructor will be called. In this case the call is automatic, but you can also
specify the base-class constructor call (as the first operation in the Beetle( ) constructor) by
using super. The base class construction goes through the same process in the same order as
the derived-class constructor. After the base-class constructor completes, the instance
variables are initialized in textual order. Finally, the rest of the body of the constructor is
executed.